I will come back and the last video will learn how to pull some information from that database and how
to refactor some of the code that we had into a function right like this.
And we put it we made a new database file and functions and all that.
Right.
If you haven't done if you haven't watched the last video make sure you do.
But anyway on this one here we're going to continue and we are going to be making the Querrey so that
when we go to the databasing of day this field in this field relating to whatever ID we have on the
database.
So for example if I target if I click on ID number one and I put a user name here and a password of
the ID number one here which in this case would be my name right.
So let's go ahead and jump into that cold and start doing this.
I'm going to take a couple of things.
As a matter of fact let's just make it right here real quick I think we can make it fast and then we
can copy it.
This is Dornier set.
Make sure that first.
Let's just put this here the famous BHB B.Tech.
I always think I have it because just because.
Yes because.
Right.
All right.
So we've got to do on this say a set function here and just to check for the pole super global.
I'm going to try to do this a little faster since this would be a little longer than usual but hopefully
it's not longer than five or six minutes.
Right.
So keep tuned for that.
You don't like you are.
All right so as a matter of fact I will not know I cannot do it from scratch.
Why not.
I should not do that.
I should be copying code that we already have from the last videos.
But I just like making mistakes that way I can fix them up.
All right.
If you like to be 100 percent sure of things and when you are starting just make sure that you copy
the stuff from the other files because we already have this from the file.
I just like writing this stuff down because I like making mistakes it makes me a better programmer.
For some reason I'm just strange Don't worry.
Don't mind me OK.
So anyway we're going to be picking these fields from the form.
Right so every time we submit the form we are going to be pulling this information from there.
All right.
And we're going to be putting it in the post associated re.
And we're going to do the ideals.
All right we're going to be pulling down.
You see that we are sending the ID right here with a name matching you we're sending the password was
and the user name.
All right so if all this is said then what do I want to do with this information.
I think as a matter of ologist created I was going to copy a book that's fine let's just create this
query here real quick and the court is going to be update.
And this is just as well OK.
So we're going to update the user table that we've been working up.
We're working on and we're going to set a value a couple of values and we're going to set a user name
and this key word here I'm picking it up.
This is not the name of the column in the database.
So if I edit this you see this column name.
That's the that's what I'm using there and going to be used in the password column.
Also.
All right.
So just for you to know that this is in the user stable if you click on the users you can see that table.
This is the rolls but you can edit that and you can look at that if you want to just look at it real
quick.
All right.
As a matter of fact I'm going to break this down this line would be too long so I'm just going to break
that down.
I'm going to concatenate it into another Kohary variable and this would be the same variable basically
and just concatenating it.
This is what these dot means.
It will be the same as this but in reality they BHB will will actually think is a really long string
if I do it with the dot right here I just don't want to do that.
That is a lot better because when I make mistakes I can just go to each line and check to see if each
line is good instead of checking his long string here.
OK so I'm just going to close that and the user name column is here now then with Wadlow want to update
this column with the username that's coming from the form right.
So I'm just going to copy this here and make sure that you have single chords there because this is
going to be a string from the form right.
I'm going to copy this whole thing here and then paste it and gonna put the name of the other column
in the database password and I'm going to copy this and paste it right here.
Right now when I have the data right in front of me I don't mind pasting it right.
So don't get me wrong.
So now the next thing right here is I'm going to use another command ask you a command code where they're
just going to give me like selection where I can select where what I want to do with this data to where
I can getting it from.
Right.
So we're going to say something like Where re here where ID equals the ID data is coming from the form.
Make sure that you don't put any quotes around that idea because it's not a string is an integer.
Remember that data from the database and into your.
Right.
So that's about it.
Here now what I want to do is actually I want to check for resaw if I have a problem because I don't
know if I have a problem here.
So we haven't made the query yet so we need to make the query first.
So let's go ahead and make the queries.
I'm going to call this query the result.
Again we we still we have these file files already where you can do is copy it if you want.
Or you can just write it down with me all right my ass.
Q Well I and this is called Kohary.
And then here we're going to pass it to parameters the connection and the query again.
This way the way I'm doing it is prone to you know for any programmer to make mistakes because I'm writing
everything down from scratch.
And you can just copy it here right.
This stuff is already here.
You got it Querrey and you got it resoled you might be asking yourself why is he writing it down.
Well one of the things is that I enjoy it.
I enjoy making mistakes because the fun of actually finding out what's wrong with something is something
that that I like and I think this way if you follow me you can learn a lot more just by typing things
down.
If I start copying and pasting you're going to be doing the same thing and you learn less.
So if you don't appreciate that then I don't know why you will appreciate.
All right.
So anyway if I say if here and I say if not three so because I'm going to find out if this is not going
to go through.
So remember this is going to be mutual for so if the resaw doesn't come back strong from the Querrey
the meaning if the query did not go through.
They aren't going to get an error.
Right.
So I'm going to say die.
This is the command that is going to stop all executions after this is going to give the user a message.
In this case the user is me and he's going to say where he failed.
Man it just failed.
And of course we need the courts there.
All right.
So let's get you ready to see the mistakes we made.
All right let's go ahead and check it out.
Pretty sure I did a super fast and I'm pretty sure there's a mistake somewhere.
So logging update perfect line 8.
So we have unexpected passwords there.
Hmm.
In line 8 in Logan page.
All right lane eight Let's see we probably forgot to send in something.
There we go.
Forgot several of them with the cup in place so fast we didn't even put semi-colons.
Boom a hole.
Wasn't that nice.
Look at that.
Perfect.
So it looks like he's working.
I'm concerned.
I don't like this.
But anyway let's go ahead and create another record in the database and let's find out if this is working.
All right.
So let's create this here.
It's just create another one to say something like wow.
No no.
The
cold man.
I like that name called man.
And just going to type in a h h h h.
And submit.
All right.
We're going to take this connect out of there.
I just don't like I just don't the ball right now we're not going to do that of course.
Let's just refresh here and the cold man.
Perfect.
Let's go to our update.
Found just going to go from up here.
Update right here.
What's going on Edwin.
There we go.
Let's click here.
And now we get a record so let's select the same one the called man and let's name it.
The called Woman Right because men are not the only one calling.
Right.
I'm just letting you know.
All right.
So let's pull some crazy password.
An update oh yes we have a mistake.
Use undefined constant resource.
That means we forgot as the dollar symbol somewhere like 17.
It could mean that it could mean something else.
I'm just.
Actually this is not.
Let's go to the files somewhere here.
Bottom line 17 haha.
Look at that.
You see that how beautiful that is when you started reading this.
This is their Querrey fail.
And now they're perfect.
So where we fell what can we do when the query fails like this.
All right well I'm going to show you a way that you can actually get some more information right.
This is not enough information as well.
Error which is in my ask where I error because this is a new API.
You should know that.
And let's just put the connection here.
I think that's the parameter takes where you think.
Right.
Let's go ahead and check it out.
Well you see that this is nice.
Now now we got a lot more information with this function right here.
All right.
So make sure you put this in your tool box.
My excuse ally underscore error is going to give a lot more information that this just little quirky
felt function there right.
All right.
So you have an error in your SU was sent to check the manufacturer's phones or didn't turn the call
woman where Id calls seven.
Oh I got a feeling it's somewhere here.
Line 1 right.
So let's see if we can find this fast.
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2.
All right so let's check this the way we can check this.
Easy is actually by putting a coma here.
I just figure it out.
But anyway I think that's the problem.
So let's we to a coal mine between these values and it wasn't there.
So make sure I hope these mistakes will help you fix yours just in case and say some shine some light.
You know we as programmers spend more time fixing things than actually making them.
So keep that in mind.
Just click.
They're perfect.
The called Woman and it's just some crazy call here and 7 update.
Perfect.
We have a problem.
Something is going on here now that is not that coma there.
So it's called and check it out.
All right perfect.
So let's we have this Colmar here is not Dyce's lame one.
But remember this whole thing is concatenating on one line.
So but it still helps me figure out what's going on.
All they use is that's fine.
They just put a space there and just check it out.
They called Woman 7 update.
That was the problem.
You saw that something as simple as not putting up space.
The problem is if you don't put a space here when you remember this is only one line so users are going
to just copy here use is going to be like this to this set.
So he's going to say user is not going to say it in one word like this.
Make sure you put a space there right.
And I always try to put spaces all around there just in case.
So make sure you put spaces there.
That was a problem.
All right.
So hopefully this little things will help you out and make you think OK the cold woman.
Yes.
Let's update that file again.
Let's do that.
This create something like this the cold boy.
And let's just say
all right.
You don't know what I said but you're going to see an out of date perfect and fresh haha.
They called boy look what he says here.
Hey student yes is working.
We finally made this work.
Right now this video got kind of long on the next lecture I'm going to show you how to lead all these
data from here right.
So hopefully you learn a lot on this one.
Thank you.
And I'll see you in the next lecture